So let's dive now into probably the main purpose why we're using service workers, providing offline
support for our web application.
That means that users can use our web application even if they are offline, which of course leads us
to the question, why would this be beneficial,
when would you use a web app if you have no internet connection?
Well actually, there are a couple of use cases where you might have no internet connection and still
want to interact with a web app,
here are some examples.
Think about a big sports event or any event where a large crowd of people is coming together.
Now there, you might have a poor connection or no connection at all from time to time,
still maybe you want to read that news article and navigate to another news article or do something
like that,
use a web application where you only need a couple of static assets in the end or a couple of images
and the web page would work but it doesn't because you have no internet connection.
Well with service workers, you will learn that you can pre-cache or in general, that you can cache certain
file, assets your web app might need and therefore can still display this page and even allow navigation
whilst your application is offline,
super useful in such circumstances.
Another example would be maybe in an elevator, so places where you have no connection at all and you
know it. Still in such places especially in the elevator for example,
you only have no connection for a couple of seconds or minutes, so it's super annoying that you kind
of can't spend that time especially in the elevator with a more useful task like browsing some article
or fetching some e-mail a colleague sent you.
Now with service workers, again
you can cache certain parts off the web application to provide it to the user when no internet connection
is there and therefore, you can still continue using the web app even though you entered a place where
you have no internet connection.
And finally and probably the most important use case, Lie-Fie,
so that's Wi-Fi which just is not.
So that means you think you have a Wi-Fi connection,
your phone displays that it has a Wi-Fi connection but we've all been there, sometimes especially in hotspots
or in hotels
maybe, you can't get that network request through the Wi-Fi,
so there, you simply can't get the request out to the Internet even though you think you have a connection.
In such cases, your whole application might simply crash and show you the
you have no internet connection screen even though in theory,
well you just wanted to keep on using it and connection might be back in a couple of seconds.
So there again, it's great if you can use service workers to cache certain parts of your web application,
to provide them to the user even when no internet connection is there. Let's have a look at how we exactly
do this,
how this caching works and which feature we use there in the next lecture.